# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the Property class?

    console.rb

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby Property object into the database?

    Inside the models/property_tracker.rb file, inside of the save method.

Q3. In console.rb, which lines modify the database?

    property.save method (line19), delete method etc.

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a Property object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

    So each instance can be given a unique id as it is generated (via SERIAL)

Q5. Where and how do we assign the property id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby object?

    In the save method (property_tracker, line31)

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an ‘if’ clause) on the @id attribute in the constructor?

    It prevents you overwriting the id that has been passed in if it is already present.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others, class methods?

    Instance methods are used when a specific instance needs to be returned/modified. Class methods are used where an entire database needs to be searched for something, returned, etc. Class methods shouldn't edit the database.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by db.exec() and db.exec_prepared(), and how do we index into it to pull out a desired attribute?

    An array of hashes is returned. To retrieve an attribute from the array, the array is then passed into the class method to return the hash.

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

    Security, only allows specific methods to be used.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the Property class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

    find_by_id takes an integer (for id)
    find_by_address takes a string (for address)

Q11. What are their return values?

    find_by_id returns a psql object
    find_by_id returns a hash via the psql object
